# Critical-Mass-Job-Application
This repository is created to answer Critical Mass Job Application questions 

# Work/Projects Examples
This is list of few recent project/work examples

<h2>Devasya</h2><br/>
Devasya is the most recent and one of the most complex project that I have worked on, built using React.js as Front-End, Django as Back-End, and MySQL as Database, in fact I am currently working on this project. This is the first time in my career when I am independently and directly working with client and understanding their needs and executing them in best possible ways in project. The aim of this project is to create a website suitable for all access devices (Laptops, and mobiles) rendering IT services of my client to their clients and/or to any company who are looking for software solutions. In other words, this website is a marketing medium of  my client to showcase their offered IT services to possible clients and a medium to do business with existing clients as well. I am working as one of two Full-Stack Development member in this project. I created front-end user interface in React.js by using components and routing. I have also created Web APIs using Django rest-framework, and Serializers and integrated them with React using Axios. I have also implemented token based user/admin authentication. The features that I am currently working on are Invoice Generation, a dedicated Dashboard for database(MySQL) for the purpose of data-analysis, and deployment of this website on a live server.<br/>
Repository Link - https://github.com/ParteekSaini/devasya

<h2>International Student Guide</h2><br/>
My Advance Web Programming course's final project was International Student Guide. It was a group project with a partner and both of us worked as developers in this project. The aim of this project was to provide guidance to international students who aspire to come to Canada and/or who are new to Canada. This project was divided into sections where each section will concentrate on solving a specific issue that one can encounter. For example, one section for filtered college list and methods to obtain offer letter for various colleges in Canada, another section to simplify the process of "How to apply visa" and obtain supporting documents which one might need, and finally one dedicated section for students to book rooms with students who are already in Canada which would cut down their expenses by more than 40%. All of these features were designed, and implemented using React.js as Front-end, Node.js as Back-end and MongoDB as Database. I also used Rest-APIs in this projects for data transfer and communication between front-end and back-end. Finally, we deployed this application on AWS using Ubuntu server and Nginx.<br/>
Repository Link - https://github.com/ParteekSaini/InternationalStudentGuideGit

<h2>NutriGuide</h2><br/>
I made this project during one of course at Douglas College. This was a personal project built using HTML5/CSS3 and JavaScript. The challenge of this project was to create a responsive web application without using external libraries such as Bootstrap etc. The objective of this project was to create a fitness web app capable of guiding a user who is new in fitness and nutrition world. The inspiration behind this project was personal as I am real fitness freak. I used HTML5 and CSS3 for designing and styling of my user interface respectively. Other than that, I also used media queries to make this app responsive for Laptops, Tablets, and Mobile Phones meaning this app had 3 different user interfaces catered towards 3 different types of devices. Moreover, I used JavaScript for input authentication and validation for 2 types of forms. One form was designed to showcase user their calorie requirements based on their Age, Gender, Height, Weight, and their fitness goal and another form was designed to provide meal options. This was a simple but effective project that I have made recently with limitations in technologies but I am proud that I still made a wonderful app nonetheless.<br/>
Repository Link - https://github.com/ParteekSaini/NutriGuide

# Inspiration
This section is to explain projects or work that recently inspired me.

<h2>Self Updating Google Maps</h2>
I came across self updating feature of google maps recently and did not realize up until that google maps updated itself using advancements in AI and imagery.
Over the past few years, businesses have experienced a lot of change — including constantly updating operating hours based on changing pandemic-related restrictions. To keep up with this pace of change, google developed a machine learning model that automatically identifies if business hours are likely wrong, then instantly updates them with AI-generated predictions. This algorithm analyze the other nearby shops, information from a specific shop's website, and its street view images to specifically look for business hour signs to determine the most accurate business hour prediction. Simultaneously, in countries like Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, and the United States, google also use Duplex conversational technology(An AI System for Accomplishing Real-World Tasks Over the Phone) to call businesses and ask for their hours directly. Google is also using AI to bring the most up-to-date road related information such as speed limit changes, road closures. For example, with the help of third-party imagery partners that already gather roadway imagery to improve delivery routes, google can request a photo of the specific stretch of road that also includes a speed limit sign. If the partner has this photo available, google then use a combination of AI and help from operations team to identify the sign in the image, extract the new speed limit information, and update Google Maps. This is highly effective use of AI and imagery to solve real world problems, therefore, I was highly inspired from this project of Google.

<h2>React by Meta</h2>
React is a JavaScript library for building user interfaces. It is one the most widely used front-end technologies used in today's web development world. I would like to highlight few of its features that have redefined and simplified web development. Firstly, React is declarative language that makes it painless to create interactive UIs. Design simple views for each state in your application, and React will efficiently update and render just the right components when data changes. Declarative views make code more predictable, simpler to understand, and easier to debug. Secondly, component-based nature of this library that manage their own state, then compose them to make complex UIs. Since component logic is written in JavaScript instead of templates, a developer can easily pass rich data through his/her app and keep state out of the DOM. Lastly, one can develop new features in React without rewriting existing code. React can also render on the server using Node and power mobile apps using React Native. This is a highly useful open-source front-end JavaScript library which have inspired me to a point that I made 2 React projects during my program at Douglas College. The current project(Devasya) that I am working on has its front-end in React which I have described above as well. The last inspiration that this technology gave me is "learn once, write anywhere", meaning re-writable code that can be used anywhere, anytime.

<h2>Metaverse by Meta</h2>
The idea of Metaverse is recently pitched by Meta (Facebook), a metaverse is a network of 3D virtual worlds focused on social connection. In futurism and science fiction, it is often described as a hypothetical iteration of the Internet as a single, universal virtual world that is facilitated by the use of virtual and augmented reality headsets. The building of metaverse has given rise to so many new technologies in virtual and augmented reality. One such technology is AR spark software which is a powerful tool capable of supporting novice JavaScript developers and 2D artists, to sophisticated 3D modelers and visual effects designers. Another such project developed by meta is Builder Bot which is an extension of a lager AI project called CAIRaoke. Builder Bot is capable of creating new virtual world as dictated by user (avatar) and its parent project CAIRaoke is dedicated towards an end-to-end neural model for building conversational AI. One more AI model created by meta is capable of translating any language to another language directly as opposed to its predecessor AI's which convert source language to English and then to destination language which adds lot of noise in translation. Metaverse is a next generation way of social interaction in virtual world which have inspired me a lot. While it may not be fully developed yet, however it has given birth of so many new AI technologies which have real world applications presently.    

# Focus
If I was given the time and resources to build/learn anything I wanted during first 6 months at Criticak Mass, what would I do?
<br/>
<h2>Multi-Sports</h2>
If I am given time and resources to so anything at Critical Mass then I would create Muti-Sports App, which is basically amalgamation of different types of sports under one platform. It will be a website as well as mobile application built in React and React Native respectively. Even though there are many apps present in market dedicated towards single sport such as NBA app for basketball, and NFL app for American football etc. but there are none whatsoever dedicated towards catering audiences across different sports. The combination of different sports inside of a single platform would exponentially increase possible target users as most people are fan of one sport or other. It is an incredibly complex project where I would have to design dedicated themes and user interfaces for various types of sports which are unique in their own way and suits the nature of specific sport. The database management in this app would be challenging for me as every sport will occupy its different section in database and I would have to use that data to provide enriching experience to user. I would have to find creative ways to showcase sports related data in immersive manner to increase engagement. I plan to use React.js, Django, and MySQL as front-end, back-end, and database respectively for website version and React Native for mobile app development. Despite having limited knowledge of react native, I am confident that I would be able to take on this challenge and develop mobile version of this app in react native with the help of Critical Mass team if required. I would like to highlight one more feature of this app to increase engagement of audience which is to give rewards for continuous correct predictions of the course of a live game/match. I can explain this feature in depth.
<br/><br/>
I have already created a UI model of this app in Just In Mind (a prototyping and wireframing tool for the creation of high-fidelity prototypes of web and mobile apps) during one of my courses at Douglas College, but It requires a lot of refining and redefining. I would built this app for few reasons; first, I would love to gain experience of a project with incredible complexity like this one and another reason is I am a sports lover and I see immense potential in this idea.




# Code Challenge
Critical Mass code challenge - https://codesandbox.io/s/2021-internship-exercise-menu-forked-rtpqb8?file=/src/index.js <br/>
Please review the output in a separate window 
